source/lesson03/content.rst, before:

Lesson 03: From Clustering To Classification
********************************************

Learning Objectives
===================

* remember how clustering works
* Apply clustering for classification
* recognize that once clustering is trained/used, it can be used for classification on new data
* use accuracy, precision and recall to describe the classifiers performance
* reflect that classification performance depends on the choice of hyperparameters
* discuss that accuracy, precision and recall can depend the size of the testset, choice of hyperparameters


Content
=======

This lesson will be shared as a video.

* for learners: a stub notebook to get you started can be obtained from `the lesson03 repo <https://github.com/deeplearning540/lesson03/blob/main/lesson.ipynb>`_.
* for instructors: the video script is available `here <https://github.com/deeplearning540/deeplearning540.github.io/blob/main/source/lesson03/script.ipynb>`_.


Check your Learning
===================

.. admonition:: Exercise 1

When using the k-Nearest-Neighbor (kNN) algorithm to predict the class of an unknown data point the `k` stands for:

 1. the radius around the new point, in which to count all occurring classes

 2. the number of classes occurring in the data set

 3. the number of nearest labeled data points to look at for reaching a decision
 
 
.. admonition:: Exercise 2

   When going through tutorials and exercises that discuss the k-Nearest-Neighbor (kNN) method, you observe that `k` is typically chosen to be an odd number. Checking the code, `sklearn` also access even numbers for `k`. Why do people tend to choose odd numbers?

   1. tradition that often works best in practice
   
   2. odd numbers prevent ties from happening with the majaority vote
   
   3. this way, the total number of samples in the neighborhood is always even as one has to add the query sample
   
   4. odd numbers prevent ties from happening with the plurarity vote
   
   
.. admonition:: Exercise 3

What is the majority vote and the plurality vote if the 8 nearest neighbors to your unknown data point are of the following classes:
First example: ::

- class 1: 3
- class 2: 2
- class 3: 2
- class 4: 1

Second example: ::

- class 1: 5
- class 2: 2
- class 3: 1


.. admonition:: Exercise 4

   Find the three hidden bug(s)!

   .. code-block:: python

      from sklearn.neighbors import KNeighborsClassifier as knn
      from sklearn.model_selection import train_test_split
      from sklearn.metrics import confusion_matrix

      X_train, X_test, y_train, y_test = train_test_split(X, y,
                                                    test_size = 1.5,
                                                    random_state = 42)
      kmeans = knn(n_neighbors=5)
      kmeans = kmeans.fit(X_train, y_train)
      y_test_hat = kmeans.predict(X_train)

      cm = confusion_matrix(y_test, y_test_hat)

      accuracy = (cm[0,0]+cm[0,1]) / cm.sum()
      assert accuracy < 1. #this fails!! why?



Exercises
=========

Use the dataset you used for `lesson02 </source/lesson02/content.rst>`_ or be brave and choose a different one. Complete the following steps in order:

For part a
----------

- Split your dataset into train and test set at a fixed ratio.

- Train a kNN classification on the training set with a fixed value of `k`. 

For part b
----------

- Run the prediction and compute accuracy, precision, recall.

- Let's vary now and recompute accuracy, precision, recall for each variant:

  - rerun everything with a smaller and a bigger testset for a fixed `k`
  - rerun everything with a different values of `k` with a fixed testset

- See for yourself: how does accuracy, precision, recall change?

- Discuss your finding with the other team members. Some prompts for the discussion:

  - should accuracy, precision, recall depend on the size of the testset? What happens in the asymptotic case (infinite testset)?
  - should accuracy, precision, recall depend on `k`?



Datasets
========

* Datasets for clustering. Each of the following synthetic datasets contains several features `x1`, `x2`, ... and a `label` column which comprises (2 classes).

  * `clustering_data_00.csv <https://github.com/deeplearning540/lesson02/blob/main/data/clustering_data_00.csv>`_
  * `clustering_data_01.csv <https://github.com/deeplearning540/lesson02/blob/main/data/clustering_data_01.csv>`_
  * `clustering_data_02.csv <https://github.com/deeplearning540/lesson02/blob/main/data/clustering_data_02.csv>`_
  * `clustering_data_03.csv <https://github.com/deeplearning540/lesson02/blob/main/data/clustering_data_03.csv>`_
  * `clustering_data_04.csv <https://github.com/deeplearning540/lesson02/blob/main/data/clustering_data_04.csv>`_
  * `clustering_data_05.csv <https://github.com/deeplearning540/lesson02/blob/main/data/clustering_data_05.csv>`_
  * `clustering_data_06.csv <https://github.com/deeplearning540/lesson02/blob/main/data/clustering_data_06.csv>`_
  * `clustering_data_07.csv <https://github.com/deeplearning540/lesson02/blob/main/data/clustering_data_07.csv>`_
  * `clustering_data_08.csv <https://github.com/deeplearning540/lesson02/blob/main/data/clustering_data_08.csv>`_
  * `clustering_data_09.csv <https://github.com/deeplearning540/lesson02/blob/main/data/clustering_data_09.csv>`_

* `iris plants <https://scikit-learn.org/stable/datasets/toy_dataset.html#iris-plants-dataset>`_ dataset. Use the columns `petal_length` vs. `petal_width`. The class label is provided as the `target` column. To obtain the dataframe from this dataset do the following:

.. code-block:: python

  import pandas as pd
  from sklearn.datasets import load_iris
  iris = load_iris()
  df = pd.DataFrame(data= np.c_[iris['data'], iris['target']],
                    columns= iris['feature_names'] + ['target'])

Commit message:

added helping sentence to steer learners

source/lesson03/content.rst, after:

Lesson 03: From Clustering To Classification
********************************************

Learning Objectives
===================

* remember how clustering works
* Apply clustering for classification
* recognize that once clustering is trained/used, it can be used for classification on new data
* use accuracy, precision and recall to describe the classifiers performance
* reflect that classification performance depends on the choice of hyperparameters
* discuss that accuracy, precision and recall can depend the size of the testset, choice of hyperparameters


Content
=======

This lesson will be shared as a video.

* for learners: a stub notebook to get you started can be obtained from `the lesson03 repo <https://github.com/deeplearning540/lesson03/blob/main/lesson.ipynb>`_.
* for instructors: the video script is available `here <https://github.com/deeplearning540/deeplearning540.github.io/blob/main/source/lesson03/script.ipynb>`_.


Check your Learning
===================

The following questions serve as a help for learners to reflect on the content of the videos. Answer at least one question. At best you want to answer these questions as a team.

.. admonition:: Exercise 1

When using the k-Nearest-Neighbor (kNN) algorithm to predict the class of an unknown data point the `k` stands for:

 1. the radius around the new point, in which to count all occurring classes

 2. the number of classes occurring in the data set

 3. the number of nearest labeled data points to look at for reaching a decision
 
 
.. admonition:: Exercise 2

   When going through tutorials and exercises that discuss the k-Nearest-Neighbor (kNN) method, you observe that `k` is typically chosen to be an odd number. Checking the code, `sklearn` also access even numbers for `k`. Why do people tend to choose odd numbers?

   1. tradition that often works best in practice
   
   2. odd numbers prevent ties from happening with the majaority vote
   
   3. this way, the total number of samples in the neighborhood is always even as one has to add the query sample
   
   4. odd numbers prevent ties from happening with the plurarity vote
   
   
.. admonition:: Exercise 3

What is the majority vote and the plurality vote if the 8 nearest neighbors to your unknown data point are of the following classes:
First example: ::

- class 1: 3
- class 2: 2
- class 3: 2
- class 4: 1

Second example: ::

- class 1: 5
- class 2: 2
- class 3: 1


.. admonition:: Exercise 4

   Find the three hidden bug(s)!

   .. code-block:: python

      from sklearn.neighbors import KNeighborsClassifier as knn
      from sklearn.model_selection import train_test_split
      from sklearn.metrics import confusion_matrix

      X_train, X_test, y_train, y_test = train_test_split(X, y,
                                                    test_size = 1.5,
                                                    random_state = 42)
      kmeans = knn(n_neighbors=5)
      kmeans = kmeans.fit(X_train, y_train)
      y_test_hat = kmeans.predict(X_train)

      cm = confusion_matrix(y_test, y_test_hat)

      accuracy = (cm[0,0]+cm[0,1]) / cm.sum()
      assert accuracy < 1. #this fails!! why?



Exercises
=========

Use the dataset you used for `lesson02 </source/lesson02/content.rst>`_ or be brave and choose a different one. Complete the following steps in order:

For part a
----------

- Split your dataset into train and test set at a fixed ratio.

- Train a kNN classification on the training set with a fixed value of `k`. 

For part b
----------

- Run the prediction and compute accuracy, precision, recall.

- Let's vary now and recompute accuracy, precision, recall for each variant:

  - rerun everything with a smaller and a bigger testset for a fixed `k`
  - rerun everything with a different values of `k` with a fixed testset

- See for yourself: how does accuracy, precision, recall change?

- Discuss your finding with the other team members. Some prompts for the discussion:

  - should accuracy, precision, recall depend on the size of the testset? What happens in the asymptotic case (infinite testset)?
  - should accuracy, precision, recall depend on `k`?



Datasets
========

* Datasets for clustering. Each of the following synthetic datasets contains several features `x1`, `x2`, ... and a `label` column which comprises (2 classes).

  * `clustering_data_00.csv <https://github.com/deeplearning540/lesson02/blob/main/data/clustering_data_00.csv>`_
  * `clustering_data_01.csv <https://github.com/deeplearning540/lesson02/blob/main/data/clustering_data_01.csv>`_
  * `clustering_data_02.csv <https://github.com/deeplearning540/lesson02/blob/main/data/clustering_data_02.csv>`_
  * `clustering_data_03.csv <https://github.com/deeplearning540/lesson02/blob/main/data/clustering_data_03.csv>`_
  * `clustering_data_04.csv <https://github.com/deeplearning540/lesson02/blob/main/data/clustering_data_04.csv>`_
  * `clustering_data_05.csv <https://github.com/deeplearning540/lesson02/blob/main/data/clustering_data_05.csv>`_
  * `clustering_data_06.csv <https://github.com/deeplearning540/lesson02/blob/main/data/clustering_data_06.csv>`_
  * `clustering_data_07.csv <https://github.com/deeplearning540/lesson02/blob/main/data/clustering_data_07.csv>`_
  * `clustering_data_08.csv <https://github.com/deeplearning540/lesson02/blob/main/data/clustering_data_08.csv>`_
  * `clustering_data_09.csv <https://github.com/deeplearning540/lesson02/blob/main/data/clustering_data_09.csv>`_

* `iris plants <https://scikit-learn.org/stable/datasets/toy_dataset.html#iris-plants-dataset>`_ dataset. Use the columns `petal_length` vs. `petal_width`. The class label is provided as the `target` column. To obtain the dataframe from this dataset do the following:

.. code-block:: python

  import pandas as pd
  from sklearn.datasets import load_iris
  iris = load_iris()
  df = pd.DataFrame(data= np.c_[iris['data'], iris['target']],
                    columns= iris['feature_names'] + ['target'])
